README.md, before:

# City Bike-sharing Analysis using Tableau 
# Overview
 In this project, I analyzed bike sharing data from New York City in August. I wanted to gain an idea of what type of user frequents a bike sharing business, what was the average bike checkout time, which genders utilized bike sharing more and what is their average trip duration. The analysis I completed was vital to modeling a bike sharing business for a proposal in the city of Des Moines.
## Preprocessing
Prior to creating the visualizations on Tableau, I used the Pandas dependencies in Python to convert the "trip duration" to a date-time format. In addition, in Tableau I created a 'calculated field' that converts numbers to strings in the context of gender.  In the calculated field created a for loop that looped through the numbers 0, 1, and 2. Each number was converted a string :

**Number to String**

<img width="332" alt="Number_to_String" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/87162266/149636808-c71e686a-09f9-4f8b-9d35-10099579ec01.PNG">

# Results
[TABLEAU STORY](https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/diamond.washington/viz/NYCCitiBike6/TripsbyGenderWeekdayperHour?publish=yes)
# Conclusion
Bike sharing is ideal for several places within a 5-minute bike ride distance. The average trip duration is 5 minutes among males and females.  5pm and 6pm are the densest times for bike sharing on all weekdays but Wednesday.  Males use bike sharing more than any gender.  Bike sharing hours are the densest at 7 am and 5pm for males. This is possibly because bike sharing is the transportation used for commuting to and from work.  Furthermore, the male population makes up 72.2 percent of subscribers in the NYC bike sharing business. Female bike share usage trends the same as the males, however, are roughly three times less in population.  Going forward, I’d include a visual that conveyed the average trips in NYC for every month. August is a hot time of the year, perhaps looking at August is giving an overzealous prediction of performance. In addition, I’d include a visual that labels the types of surrounding business near the most popular starting and ending point. There may be a need for local business development prior to the bike sharing business performing well in Des Moines.

Commit message:

Further exploration
doing person exploration on bike-sharing data.

README.md, after:

# City Bike-sharing Analysis using Tableau 
# Overview
In this project, I analyzed bike-sharing data from New York City during the summertime, particularly the month of August. I wanted to gain an idea of what type of user frequents a bike-sharing business, what was the average bike checkout time, which genders utilized bike-sharing more, and what is their average trip duration. The analysis I completed was vital to modeling a bike-sharing business for a proposal in the city of Des Moines.
## Preprocessing
Prior to creating the visualizations in Tableau, I used the Pandas dependencies in Python to convert the "trip duration" to a date-time format. In addition, in Tableau, I created a 'calculated field' that converts numbers to strings in the context of gender.  In the calculated field, I created a for loop that looped through the numbers 0, 1, and 2. Each number corresponds to a string :

**Number to String**

<img width="332" alt="Number_to_String" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/87162266/149636808-c71e686a-09f9-4f8b-9d35-10099579ec01.PNG">

# Results
[TABLEAU STORY](https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/diamond.washington/viz/NYCCitiBike6/TripsbyGenderWeekdayperHour?publish=yes)
# Conclusion
Locations within a 5-minute bike ride are ideal for bike-sharing. The average trip duration is 5 minutes for both males and females.  5 pm and 6 pm are the densest times for bike-sharing on all weekdays but Wednesday.  Males use bike sharing more than any gender.  Bike-sharing hours are the densest at 7 am and 5 pm for males. This suggests bike-sharing is the transportation used for commuting to and from work.  Furthermore, the male population makes up 72.2 percent of subscribers in the NYC bike-sharing business. Female bike share usage trends are similar to male trends, however, are three times less in population.  Going forward, I’d include a visual that conveyed the average trips in NYC for every month. August is a hot time of the year, perhaps looking at August is giving an overzealous prediction of performance. Stakeholders may consider a seasonal bike-sharing business with further analysis.  In addition, I’d include a visual that labels the types of businesses near the popular starting and ending point. There may be a need for local business development prior to the bike-sharing business performing well in Des Moines.
